Are European travellers safe?
Should we cancel or continue these trips in
such a war-like situation?
Friends, I have been getting a lot of
emails and messages from the last few days
in which viewers are asking what we should
do in this situation.
A lot of travellers' tickets, stay, etc.
are fully booked.
Their plans are already in April, May or
June and they are confused about what to
do.
So, today's video is about how to deal
with this situation and what changes we need
to bring in European planning so that you
don't have to worry if such a geopolitical
situation arises.
I am Heena Shah and I make videos
related to Europe budget travel and tips.
Do watch all my videos for a lovely
trip to Europe.
First of all, it is important to understand
that in such a geopolitical situation, European tourism
and destinations are not directly affected.
The only thing that is affected is flights
and routes.
So, your flights may get cancelled, delayed or
you may have to take longer routes due
to closure of airspaces, etc.
So, a smart move should be to book
always refundable flights.
I understand that cheap flights are non-refundable.
So, it is better to book refundable flights
by paying a little more.
Next thing is that you should always pay
attention to the travel advisories of the airlines.
Do not rely on any news from WhatsApp
or any other channel.
Most important, do not panic.
If you panic, you won't be able to
think straight and you won't be able to
make a right decision for yourself.
So, be calm and understand that whatever travel
advisories are being given by your country or
destination country, you should follow them.
So, follow the official advisories and stay updated
with the information you get from your airlines.
Do not immediately cancel your plans.
That's not the right thing to do.
We panic and think that I don't think
I can travel right now.
So, I will just cancel my plans.
Do not do that.
Because these airlines or wherever you have booked
your trips from, they might give you a
credit, they might give you a different date
to travel on.
They will give you some option or the
other before you cancel the flight.
Think, listen to all the options and then
take your decision.
Next, whenever you book a stay, you should
always book refundable bookings.
Because that's what I do.
I have always booked refundable bookings on all
our trips.
In case something or the other changes, I
can always get the booking cancelled and get
the money back.
So, that is very very important, especially in
these kinds of situations.
Thirdly, you have to take care of one
more thing.
That whatever itinerary you have to make, you
don't have to make it a back-to
-back packed itinerary.
You have to keep a buffer in between.
So, it's not like you land at one
place and then immediately go to another place
the next day.
And then you know next.
If you have made such a back-to
-back itinerary jam-pack, then it can be
a problem.
Because in case there are flight delays or
you reach late due to longer routes, then
you won't have the buffer time to adjust
this delay.
So, always keep your plans fluid.
Again, I have said this earlier also and
again I am insisting.
Don't make time-stamped itineraries.
Because you never know when there can be
a change in the plans.
So, keeping a buffer time is very very
important.
Next, don't ignore travel insurance at all.
As a mandatory requirement, we always take travel
insurance.
But we don't read the fine print.
A lot of times, a lot of such
things are not covered in travel insurance.
So, whenever you take a travel insurance policy,
please read what is covered in case of
flight delay cancellation or various other war-like
situations.
And what is not covered.
So, pay attention to the fine print in
the travel insurance.
And take this type of insurance so that
you can get good coverage.
And yes, if a lot of travellers have
already booked and now this is a situation
that has arrived, then what can you do?
Again, repeating, don't panic.
Follow the official updates from the airlines.
Don't read the messages from the social media
and cancel your plans.
And one very very important thing.
If there is no issue in your destination,
then frankly speaking, you don't need to cancel
your plans.
You just need to adjust your mode of
travel or bring some changes in it.
If the destination is completely peaceful, normal travel
is going on, everything is under control, then
definitely you can go visit these countries.
You do not need to directly cancel your
plans.
So, I hope in this video, I have
answered a few of your queries considering the
situation that arises every now and then, especially
the geopolitical situations like the one which is
going on currently.
And yes friends, I would like to share
one thing with you.
Based on my experience, which I have been
travelling for so many years, the travel plans
are never predictable.
There can be some changes which can be
completely unpredictable.
Sometimes the weather changes, sometimes there is some
issue with the airlines, and sometimes some other
issue.
So for this, you have to always be
ready, mentally prepared that any change can happen
at any time.
But this does not mean that you cancel
your plans.
It means that you think wisely and take
practical decisions.
If you have more queries, then please write
to me in the comment section.
I will try and answer all your queries.
And keep following my videos for more such
practical updates.
Thank you. (Transcribed by TurboScribe. ai)